- Name: roadmap-2019
- Start Date: 2019-07-13
- Issue/PR: (leave this empty)
- Point of Contact: Leandro Ostera <leandro@src.technology>
                    Pontus Nagy <pontusnagy@gmail.com>
                    Ulrik Strid <ulrik.strid@outlook.com>

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

This first roadmap is intended to elaborate on _what_ needs to be done in
terms of features, split into two phases:

* an Initial Phase that defines the minimum functionality that makes Reuniverse
  usable for all developers,

* a Public Phase that broadly defines the direction for the rest of the year.

The scope of this roadmap is until the end of the year, and we will sketch
another roadmap by the beginning of 2020.


# Initial Phase
[initial-phase]: #initial-phase

This initial phase includes the 3 minimal features from
[RFC0001](./0001-reuniverse.md), and we are intending to complete it before
the Reason Conf US.

These features are:

0. Package Index
1. Package Search
2. Package Documentation
3. Recent Releases

## Features #0: Package Index
[feat-0-package-index]: #feat-0-package-index

**Definition of Done**
* We have an index of Reason packages published to a public url
* The index is updated periodically.
* Document how Reuniverse finds packages, answering:
  * How do I get my package to be found?

**Current Work**
At the moment we have created a package scanner for the NPM registry, and we
have capabilities to save and load the index of packages from disk, in JSON
encoding. Additionally, we have the Azure pipelining in place to build and
publish the index on demand.

**Blockers**
Schedules in Azure Pipelines are broken, waiting for a fix to unblock
building periodically.

**What needs to be done**
* Document how to help Reunivese find your package


## Features #1: Package Search
[feat-1-package-search]: #feat-1-package-search

**Definition of Done**
* We can search for packages in the index at [Reuniverse](https://reuniverse.github.io/)
  by name, description, target platform, tags.
* Searching should handle any amount of packages that we can get in
  [Feature #0](#feat-0-package-index).
* Searching should look consistent and beautiful.
* Clicking on a package will take me to the package documentation.
* All packages will show where they came from (npm, github, etc)

**Current Work**
At the moment we can load the index at runtime, and it will use a naive
regular expression matching to filter out packages based on their name,
description, and target platform.

We have also built several components that structure the web application,
naively resembling a design system.

**What has to be done**
1. Rework the Search to use a less naive approach and include more metadata fields
1. Define basics of the Design System
1. Extend the index to include package origin information


## Features #2: Package Documentation
[feat-2-package-docs]: #feat-1-package-docs

**Definition of Done**
* Every major version of a package in the index that successfully compiles will
  have its corresponding generated documentation published under
  `https//reuniverse.github.io/packages/<author>/<pkg>/<version>`

**Current Work**
At the moment we have a PR open that will pull in the sources for all the
packages in the index whose target platform is not `Unknown`.

**What has to be done**
1. Extract the sources for every package and verify their integrity
1. Compile every downladed package version using the appropriate compiler (BuckleScript or OCaml)
1. Generate documentation using the appropriate ODoc driver (BsDoc for `Web`, Dune for `Native` and `Universal` packages)


## Features #3: Recent Releases
[feat-3-recent-releases]: #feat-1-recent-releases

**Definition of Done**
* We have a dedicated section with the package releases for the last week.

**What has to be done**
* Extend the index with release date for every version of every package
* Generate an export that includes the latest version for all the packages published in the last week
* Create a dedicated section in the website that uses this export


# Public Phase
[public-phase]: #public-phase

After we release Reuniverse to the public, we would like some of the
following to be developed over the rest of the year. The order and priority
of them is undefined but we will use the input of the community to define it.

## Scan Github for Packages
Reuniverse should scan Github for packages marked as using the OCaml language
and include them into the Package Index.

## Inclusion of unpublished packages?
Determine whether unpublished packages should be a part of the
index/searchable and if so this should probably be visible to the user. e.g.
`unpublished` label

## Documentation coverage
Reuniverse should tag packages with missing documentation or undocumented interfaces.

## Type-level Search
Reuniverse should allow you to write a type-signature and find the symbols
that are related to it, across packages, and provide access to the
documentation of those symbols.

## Documentation Search
Reuniverse should allow you to search across all the docs for all the packages.

## Playground
Reuniverse should provide a playground where you can mesh up libraries and
try them out, provided they are runnable as web projects. This ties up
closely with work being done by @thangngoc89 on Sketch.sh, and is a point
where we should collaborate.

## Automated Weekly Newsletter
Reuniverse can help automate the publication of a newsletter with new
packages, new package versions, and major updates to the compiler or the
language.
